My name is Andrew Kaufman. I'm a medical doctor and board certified forensic psychiatrist. This pandemic is not a real medical pandemic. The COVID-19 vaccine is not proven safe or effective because there has not been enough time. In addition, there is not a clear definition of any new disease for which it can be tested against. There has not been a virus that has been purified or shown to be the cause of an illness. Thus, there is no target for a vaccine. However, the bottom line is that since no additional deaths have occurred in relation to a new disease, there is simply no need for a new vaccine.

Hi, my name is Hilda Met. I'm a belching medical doctor and I'd like to say that a new COVID-19 vaccine is not safe and that there is no global medical pandemic. For almost 20 years the pharmaceutical industry has been trying to develop Corona vaccines but never managed because they saw in the animal trials that there were serious side effects autoimmune disorders when the animal was exposed to new wild side fires. These autoimmune disorders are comparable with the complications we have seen in some COVID-19 patients. Now, due to the excuse of a global pandemic, the Pharma industry has the permission to skip the animal trials.

This means that we humans will be the Greene picks and we might get severe side effects. Then we are exposed to new viruses.

My name is Nic For So, I'm a medical doctor in Dargan, Norway. The COVID-19 vaccine has not been proven safe and affected. It's a new technology and it's been tested a few thousands of people in a few months. Please do your own research. This is not a real medical pandemic. The death rate in no, we are not higher than among average year.

Dr Elizabeth Evans, retired Dr and Cofounder of the UK Medical Freedom Alliance. The COVID-19 vaccines are not proven to be safe or effective. We believe that it is reckless and unnecessary to roll out these essentially experimental vaccines that are using a completely new mRNA technology to millions of people when there is only limited shortterm safety data, no evidence that they will prevent transmission of the virus and no long term safety data to rule out late offset negative effects like autoimmune diseases, infertility and cancers, they said.

Doctor Mohammed Adel from the United Kingdom. I am fan of the Royal College of Surgeons of UK and consulted surgeon. I have been working for the National Health Services for the last 30 years with Unblemished. Com. I am chairman of the globally in organization. All packs are Medical Association UK and recently we have developed World Doctors Alliance and collaboration with thousands of health professions across the world. Recently we had very successful Webinar which has been viewed by millions of people across the world. I am studying for the cause of the humanity, especially in the current situation of it demonstrating a fact due to coronavirus and the restrictions imposed on the public anything.

Doctors aren't allowed to question COVID-19 in public material containing the truth about the alleged disease and the vaccine is banned. In the last year I'd been demonized and lied about and a 50 year career and reputation trashed by those promoting a pandemic that never was on a vaccine that was never needed. The whole COVID-19 scam is, as I said in March 2020, the greatest hoax in history. The principle of informed consent is essential in medicine, but patients now having vaccines can't give informed consent because they aren't being informed.

Thank heavens for sites such as Brand New Tube, which carry uncensored videos by doctors who have been censored or banned elsewhere.

My name is Professor Delores Carl and the molecular biologist and immunologist and we have good news. The thrown a virus and the lockdown was not as severe as was told. We know that we can treat the symptoms of covert 19 very successfully with vitamin C and zinc and was very safe medicines. And so therefore the lockdown and the measures like foreign ining social distancing and masks were not necessary and also a vaccine is then also not necessary. There has never been a licensed RNA vaccine and this is not because there have been many clinical trials so that in the safety studies there were significant address events and death in the animals that we use in these studies over the past 20 years.

My name is Zac Cox. I'm a holistic dentist and a homeopath. I'm a founder member of the World Doctors Alliance, I believe, but the pandemic is fundamentally over and was so in the summer. I also firmly believe that there is no long term safety data on any of the COBIT vaccines. This means that they are essentially experimenting on us, which is against the Nuremberg Code. I will not be taking the vaccine.

Hello.

I'm Dr Anna Forbes. I'm a UK medical doctor here representing the UK Medical Freedom Alliance. This is a growing body of doctors, scientists, academics and lawyers. We believe that there has been an overestimation of the public health risk from SARS CoV two due to misrepresentation of data and inappropriate use of the PCR test. We call for the preservation of informed consent, medical choice and bodily autonomy. As doctors, we believe this is absolutely crucial to maintain. Thank you.

I am Ralph Sunberg, MD, PhD, former associate professor in transplant surgery at Karolinska Institute. My opinion of this crisis is that the PCR test.

Is inaccurate.

It actually causes so many false positives, so we are scared to vaccination and I don't trust this vaccine.

My name is Dr Johan Denis from Belgium. The Corona vaccine is not proven safe or effective. There is no medical emergency, it is a fake pandemic. The Corona virus is in terms of harmfulness mortality and transmissibility comparable to a seasonal flu. And I can only reject the extreme disproportionate measures that are taken by our governments. There is no emergency situation. It was all orchestrated to make you fearful enough to take the vaccine. This vaccine is just not proven safe. It has been developed too quickly. We have no idea what the long term effects will be.

It needs much more investigation. There is no hurry or emergency. It might possibly change your DNA. This is irreversible and irrepairable for all future generations. An experiment on humanity. I would never give it to myself, my patience or my loved ones. We are no guinea pigs. There is nanotechnology present in this vaccine. Nanobots in hydrogels have been developed for military purposes. There are strong indications it could make you a controllable puppet by means of your own smartphone connected with a five G network and artificial intelligence.

In this way, you could lose everything that makes you human. So please inform yourself well, before you decide, very useful information can be found on the website of Robert Kennedy Children's Health defense. Org. I bless you all.

Hi, I'm Dr. Daniel Column, Chiropractic physician from Turpin, Oklahoma, USA. This is not a real medical pandemic the world is enduring. At this time. The vaccine has not been proven safe or effective and I will not be taking and or recommending it because there is no safe vaccine. Period. My name is More Tannerboy. I'm working as a journalist in science and medicine and I'm from Germany. Do not take the 16. The 16 is dangerous. This pandemic is a fraud.

My name is An Finethen. I'm a medical doctor from Belgium specialized in chronic infectious diseases such as lime, Epstein Barr malts, etc. A COVID-19 vaccine is not proven safe or effective and I think it's unacceptable that all liabilities have been wasted for the companies that are producing it. If Pharma doesn't take responsibility for the products they make, how can they expect doctors to inject them to their patience, without doubt of doing harm? More and more we see that this is really not a medical epidemic. The measures for Corona cause far more collateral damage than the virus causes itself.

Worldwide. We see that the numbers of cases are falsely presented in order to drive the population to obedient behavior into vaccination. So please be critical. Do your own research and don't let the media manipulate you. I think it's time to react. Time to stand up for your freedom, for the future of your children. Don't give into anxiety, to polarization, to governmental control and to restriction of your freedom all under the false pretext of virus, because that's what's happening.

Hi, this is Dr. Tom Cowen, and I just want to remind people that we have to remember that health does not come from the injection of toxins into our bodies, but rather from deciding what it means to be human and pursuing that with all your heart.

I'm Dr. Kevin Corbett, a retired registered nurse and health scientists in the United Kingdom. The covert vaccines are not proven safe or effective. Covert is not a real medical epidemic. The vaccines use synthetic products that will alter our genes, allow monitoring of your vaccination status and produce dangerous chemical reactions. Scientists are therefore demanding that all COVID vaccinations be immediately stopped. The real epidemic is seen hysteria. It started in China and quickly spread via the World Health Organization. The hysteria was accelerated by corporations he gained financially through selling fast track flawed medical tests, toxic antiviral drugs, and now unproven and potentially dangerous vaccines.

Standard precautions, which normally protect the public, have been disregarded due to ignorance, hysteria, and profits. For example, the vaccines have not undergone proper phase three tests. The COVID test. The PCR is fakely flawed. It was never examined in the standard way by the United Kingdom National Health Service, and it should never have been used on sick people or those with no symptoms. You can read about the flaws in the PCR test at www. Dot. Corman. Drustin review dot com.

My name is Dr. Carry Made. I am an internal medicine physician from the United States of America. I've owned my own clinic and I've been a medical director of two different clinics as well as being an attending physician for medical students over the last 19 years. I'm here to tell you that there is no worldwide pandemic for covid 19. We're using testing mechanisms called PCR that have never been indicated or created to diagnose any infection. This is not the way we should be diagnosing. In addition, hospitals and doctors are getting financial incentives to diagnose Cova.

19. On top of that, we have multiple lab errors happening around the world over and over, indicating more false positives. On top of that, I am here to tell you that I will not take the COVID-19 vaccine and I will not recommend the COVID-19 vaccine for any of my patients. This vaccine is experimental on the human race because they are proposing to use modified messenger RNA or modified DNA synthetic to the human body. This is the first time ever this will ever be launched on the human race.

We don't know what could happen to us. In addition, they are proposing to use Nano, lipid technology or nanotechnology and the human race as well. There are so many different awful things that can happen to us and we need to investigate this before we go forward. This is my alarm call to the world.

My name is Dr. Arlando. Not created many vaccine damaged children due to the lack of proper testing and the spurious conditions surrounding the alleged pandemic. I would highly caution anyone considering taking the COVID-19 vaccine.

I am Kate Shemirani naturalness in a toxic world. Do I believe there is a pandemic? Absolutely not. There's no evidence of that. Do I believe that COVID-19 exists? Absolutely not. It has never been proven. Do I believe that the population need this new COVID-19 dangerous vaccine? That's not had to say to trials done and it hasn't ever been done before? Absolutely not. No one needs it. Do I believe that our government should be arrested for possibly genocide? Absolutely.

My name is Sandy Luna returned Pharmacists and the live in Norway. The COVID-19 vaccines are not proven safe or effective. I'll focus on just two safety issues. The vaccines carry the risk that immune enhancement instead of protecting against infection, the vaccine can actually make the disease worse when a vaccinated person is infected with the virus. Secondly, in the UK the Medicines and Health Care Products Regulatory Agency has made an urgent request the MHRA Urgent Lysis and Artificial Intelligence software tool to process the expected high volume of COVID-19 vaccine adverse drug reactions.

My name is Dan or your diploma upon from your tertiary complementary medicine clinic or 30 or the center and the global unrest war three heat or some more streets promo the gold for Tatertots experimental vaccine. Some came from in criminal fill back so Maro study and I'm sick. It is for a a Prophet are Norman Enama press for Astor true overtly and a deficit for shaking blog no one stands were then sounds good. I've all got for Shack that is taught to vaccine.

The.

Hello everybody. My name is Chad Rubus. I come from Poland. I work as an internet in Germany currently as honors. I strongly disagree to getting vaccinated with this experimental Corporation called the Corona Vaccine. Firstly, each and every new vaccine as to undergo a period of clinical trans which is at least five years. Secondly, why should I export my body to something unknown due to the virus which mortality rate is similar to death of seasonal influence of Iris.

The Coin 19 Basin is not proven safe or effective. This is not a real makeup pandemic.

I want you to remember that each one of you, every single one of you independently is a beacon, a flight for those around you. So set the example. Stand up. Continue to continue to speak out especially for your children. Let your children see what it means to be free. Allow your children to witness your heroism and that you are willing to stand up and do what's right regardless of what's going on around you do.

For better part of a century, vaccination has relied on corrupt science, propaganda and systemic suppression of true informed consent. With the Cova Jack scene, we reach an inflection point where the truth is available for all to see. Will you trust GMO Pharmaceutical and five subsidizing Genesis technocrats with your health, or will you see through their claims to a transhumanist agenda that aims to dispossess you of trust in your body, of any agency, around your own life and even of the fabric of your own humanity. Vaccination is penetration of the body mind and spirit by the state.

The COVID-19 vaccine is not proven safe or affected. This is not a real medical fantastic.

My name is constant gene Pat leaders and I'm a confessor of collegic science, a biomedical researcher and an integrated healthcare practitioner in London. I feel the colored Nancy environment not real, very candid and for this reason the vaccine is being produced is not proof it safe or effective because there are four stages, the late a symptomatic stage, the developmental state with is a manifestation of symptoms. The virus convinces the T cells that it's not an invader and then attacks into the immune system. And finally, the four stages to decline the bias presence where it is undetectable by any test and it's not present in the body liquids.

The violent DNA becomes a part of the DNA host immune cells.

So for this reason.

No code tests are truly accurate and no produce vaccine could be accurate as it treats the immune system into reacting as if there is a real viral attack with this triggers monocytes in the attempt to access the Union memory cells. These actions appear as violence symptoms, for example, chronicity muscular contractions or mental health disorders ranging from depression to suicidal tendencies. And all of these are in fact sin fits of the bank sees influence know that when they develop this.

It'S under the umbrella of the 2005 Prep Act. They have complete liability protection. You can't sue them and you have no recourse that the vaccine harms you. They have been trying to develop a Corona virus vaccine since 2002 since we had SARS and every animal study that they've done, particularly the ferret study, which the ferrets immune system most mimics the human adult immune system. Ferret studies, rabbits and rat studies. All the animals ended up with a paradoxical immune response in which the antibody levels that were very high actually accelerated the infection, made it much worse and allowed the peace of the virus to go inside of the cell and be incorporated into the DNA of the recipient of that vaccine by a process called transduction that transduction irreversibly puts that snip of virus into your DNA and transforms your cells.

Hello, I'm Santa, but I'm a freelance journalist and I represent Children's Health Defense in Europe with Robert F. Kennedy Jr. We want to alert you to the fact that the current covered vaccines are an experimental product based on the injection of genetic material into ourselves. And the risk of using these new technologies on humans and the environment are unknown. Well, they could have irreversible consequences. In April, the Pandemic Accelerator Act of the European Union allow vaccine producers to have a free pass for safety. And on July 15, the European Parliament agreed to remove the need of risk evaluation requested under the GMO regulation.

That decision was made in ten days. There were no scientific reports, no hearings in Health Commission, no debate and new amendments prior to these votes. So Children Self Defense Europe has asked for the announcements of this decision in the European Court of justice in Luxembourg. Please share this information as it is extremely important to understand that the current curved vaccines are not proven safe or legislators have abandoned to prison the principle of precaution by putting blind faith in a dangerous experiment.

My name is it, gentlemen. I am a German medical doctor now working in Norway. I have been working with general practice for 40 years, doing research for 20 years, the last ten years, especially on vaccines. I have to shout out that this is not a real medical pandemic and the COVID-19 vaccine is not proven to be safe or adjective. I agree with the British medical Journal that the testing is not done honestly, they claim 90% percent effect is really only zero. 2%. If you study the results, I wonder, why did Cates and his conspiracy terrorists spend billions to develop scenes that can sterilize men, women and even their unborn children?

Uniform and forceful measures, medical measures or unethical and cannot be implemented on a defenseless population neither as test nor as vaccines. Any medical intervention, testing, treatment or vaccine can only implement it in an ethical and legal way based on an individual medical consideration, well informed patient consent and clinical evidence of harmlessness beyond doubt. Thank you.

My name is Mikael Nord Force. I'm a medical doctor from Sweden and I'm working with integrative medicine and there is no pandemic and the vaccine is neither safe nor effective and to give untested vaccine to entire humanity and use them as guinea pigs is complete madness and nothing else. We must stop it now and it's even more madness to give it two children. When children don't suffer from coventin, nobody died under the age of 15 in my country so far. And then there's only side effects and risks and costs.

And that's a waste of money and a waste of human life and safety to stop it now. And I also bet that there will never be a vaccine as safe and effective as vitamin D that can reduce mortality between 1590. 5%, depending on the level of vitamin D you have in your plant. Thank you very much.

Hello. I'm a cat. I'm a medical doctor from the Netherlands. I have informed myself about the vaccine and I want to tell you about three things. First of all, this vaccine could be sterilizing women and girls. Secondly, this vaccine could cause a viral interference, a priming, and then it can cause a cytokine storm, which is very dangerous for your help for people. This has been seen in humans and animals, animal testing with other grown of vaccines and then 30. This vaccine could change your genetic blueprint. Your genetic coach your DNA forever, and we don't know what it's going to bring you.

Thank you very much. Inform yourself. Protect yourself. Protect your children and look it up. Thank you.

