Doctor Roger Hodkinson. Now we've had some esteem guest on our show, including Dr. Pierre Corey and Dr. Peter McCullough. And I think it's very fair to say that Doctor Roger Hodkinson is probably the most well rounded and most experienced physician speaking to the issue of the pandemic in the world today.

But before we paste seconds on children, so could I elaborate on a fertility issue?

Actually, that's what I wanted to see into next. So you were talking about long term effects of the myocarditis. There is another aspect here that can have terribly long term effects, in fact, generational effects. And that is the potential for infertility. Now, I saw you on the high wire a couple of days ago with Dell Big Tree, and it was great. And you talk to this a little bit about the the expression of the ace, two receptors in testicles and small intestine. And I believe in ovaries as well.

And in the uterus. Is that correct?

Not the over. So much will differentiate the male and female here. It's quite important to understand the differences and why there's a potential I underlined that in neon. I'm not a scaremonger. I'm simply referring to the medical literature and talking about caution and show me I'm wrong. That's what I'm talking about. Because fertility is something very, very significant. And it can't be just brushed away under the guise of a rushed, restless introduction of an experimental vaccine. With respect to girls. Let's deal with them first, please. First of all, you and I know, but the general public does not know that a baby girl is born with all her in her over.

That's it. They don't make more of them if they die.

They're done full compliment for the rest of her life.

That's right. That's right. A very precious Chicago right there at birth. Now, it just so happens that the FISA submission to the Japanese authorities just being translated. And it's clear that in the what's called biodistribution study, that means trying to figure out where these little particles in the vaccine go in the body. Where did they locate a very important part of any medication study, particularly with vaccines and particularly, of course, with new technology like this. Now, this study was in rats, not even for obvious reasons. And they found that much to everyone's surprise, these particles located heavily in the ovaries.

That was it. No further studies, no other animal studies, different type of animal which are obligated to do all that we know at this point in time is that in rats that these vaccine particles heavily aggregate in the overas. Now, that's a huge long Bell, because we don't know what the consequences of that is. No, it may be nothing but show me that it's not, because when we're dealing with infertility, you cannot check for that in a trial that runs four to six months. The last time I checked, Sam, correct me if I'm wrong here, but in medical school.

Weren't we taught that page the last nine months?

Is that correct in humans? Yes, that's about average. Yes. Nine months is the figure they gave us.

How can you possibly check for infertility? If you do a trial for four to six months, you can't with males. It's a different story. This isn't experimental data. Now, this is published data before covert. Let me just sidetrack here a little bit into how this vaccine works. The vaccine is intended to produce a particular protein from the virus is called a spike protein. And the production of that spike protein is then it's intended that the immune system reacts to that to produce the longterm immunity to the virus itself.

Now it just so happens that the spike protein has a specific receptor in the body. It's called the ace two receptor. Ace two receptor. It's very widely distributed. That's how it gets into the body in the first place, through the back of the throat and the upper strata tract. But that receptor is very widely expressed in the body. It's on the inside surface of every blood vessel, Artis pillars and veins throughout the entire body. The brain included, the endometrium included will come to that the lining of the uterus.

And we believe that it's the attachment of the spy protein to that very specific receptor that starts the clotting process inside the blood vessel, obstructing the blood vessel and causing problems in the distribution of that blood vessel. Now, two of the organs in the body that have the highest expression of the St receptor are the percent. Does that get your attention?

The most fragile tissue in the human body, right.

In addition to the end of it, the placenta and the test is unexpectedly. The test is a very high concentration, and in fact, it was shown with autopsies on people who died of the infection itself, that there was inflammation in the testes. In some of these people, we call it Orchis medically. In fact, the inflammation of the testes. If the testes are a focus of attack of the spike protein, again, we don't know what that translates into. Oh, I'm sorry. That previous study, it wasn't a dog top to beg your pardon.

It was men who had covered the infection and this is coming out of Israel. Now it was shown that they had reduced stone price.

Right.

So there's a good reason to be worried about if the spike protein attaches to the same receptors, could the same result happen?

And this is in addition to you've expressed concern, as have many other experts about the reduced sperm count over the last few decades is everyone that would compound the unexplained reduction.

About 40% reduction in spoon cats internationally that we really don't know the cause on. We don't need another hit on male fertility, obviously. And yet, despite that potential underlined unproven, despite that potential risk, we are currently injecting millions of young men with this experimental vaccine not knowing anything about its possible consequences on fertility. I want to be wrong. Yes, I'm not a scam anger. All I'm saying is that prudent traditional medicine being very risk of us should be saying, Stop the train, not just for myocarditis reasons, but for the fact that these the ominous potential of infertility for different reasons in girls and boys.

And it should be said, you're not a conspiracy theorist. You're not an anti boxer. You're not a great stone. Approaching this as the quintessential physician, do no harm with decades of experience in a variety of different subspecialties in a variety of different areas. And your alarm bells are just going off like crazy.

Yes, the two central ethics in medicine that you and I were taught in medical school first, do no harm and informed consent. They're both being massively abrogated.

