What they have to do is connect us to this grid in the same way as the antennas of Elon Musk in America. And the plant is to do this, not even through microchips that you can see, but through nanotechnology. And one major way they want to get this latest level of nanotechnology into every man, woman and child on the planet is through the Gates vaccine. And this whole pandemic hoax has been for three main reasons, one to destroy the independent livelihoods of the population so that they are dependent on the state and therefore have to do what the state says to get them easily a barely survivable income that is planned under the their heading of guaranteed income to justify this grid of surveillance and control, and to say that people must effectively be chipped so that they can be read by technology to see if they have a temperature, whether they're danger to anybody.

And I've just finished a book, a new book which is coming out pretty soon and get of it was written before this lock down thing kicked off. And the chapters I've done on the pandemic completely describe what I said in the first 85% was the plan. And one of the things I say in that early part of the book is that gave this vaccine alliance of Bill Gates was developing this quantum and tattoo on the basis of putting it into children in the third World as a digital identity to track those who'd been vaccinated and not.

But of course, now we see the real reason that, yes, but the real reason that they were developing this and that's because this was coming. It's no accident. That was it in March that Bill Gates stepped down from Microsoft because he wanted to focus on his philanthropy.

Actually, David, did you see that I could pull up the article here in a moment. It was actually a record number of CEOs that quit during I think it was either January or February 2020. In other words, when the market was at the top, there was like a bunch of them. They jump up, jump ship, right. And they got out when it was high, they got their big. What do you call them, the Golden Parachutes or their or deals that they get when they resign and stuff like that, which implies that some of these guys that they knew that it was coming, Bill Gates included.

This has been planned for a long time. When this started. Henrick, I was doing an interview in London and they said, Well, they say they're looking for a vaccine. This was in quite early days. I said the vaccine already exists. They're going to find a vaccine. The vaccine exists before they played the hoax. But because it takes years to develop a vaccine, even those that cause terrible harm to people, they can't just come out with it or we know it was there before the start of this whole thing.

So what they've done is they're pushing it as fast as possible. And they're now talking in Britain through Oxford University of having a vaccine ready for September. Now, this in vaccine creation terms, developing terms, et cetera, is absolutely insane and ridiculous. But there's two things here. One, the contents of the vaccine already exists that they want to get into us. And that is the major part of that is nanotechnology microchips to connect us to this grid and not only microchips, but self replicating nanobots that will change the nature of the human body and change human DNA.

We take human DNA because they want this vaccine to be one of these never used on humans DNA, genetic manipulation, vaccine, mRNA vaccine.

N, the company that was given, by the way, the contract I think we're talking about in the half of billions and Trump essentially just said yes, because the French go when they're sitting at a meeting. So I'll have it to you in two months, like the fastest possible. Right. But this company has never had a product to market. It hasn't been proven to exist. But what it means, though, if they do achieve, well, whatever that means can be trusted. Right. But they do bring it to market.

And if it does, if it becomes mandatory or whatever it means that we will have an mRNA vaccine, which is an experimental thing which we've never seen before. Right. And to go a step further, think about this thing that you were covering so well in the beginning, when you kind of got into this about the this weirdness about the RNA nature of the virus or whatever China isolated right there's, this exosomes kind of overlap that are we talking about a natural immune response that exists in the body that they are now targeting?

If this mRNA vaccine, which is essentially is a way for well, in the nicest terms, they say it's your body that produces the medicine, they say. But essentially, it turns you into a genetically modified organism. It starts to changing your genetic makeup to fight this supposed vaccine. What if it's designed to fight the very immune response that we have, which is a naturally occurring thing? I mean, this is insanity.

Well, first of all, they've been targeting the human immune system for decades and decades, in many in various ways. But, you know, the dots that connect into this absolutely vast. And that's what I've done in this book. I've connected all these dots, and then it goes into this pandemic, and they all connect into this pandemic, all of them. So the idea is to get this vaccine into us so that we have this connection and the body starts to change through the self replicating nanobots nanotechnology. What I've been saying over the years is that they want to create they've actually got a name for it.

Now they call it synthetic biology. What change the nature of the human body? To a synthetic form. In this synthetic form will not be able to procreate. The procreation will be done in accordance with older suckles. Brave new world in world Hatcher is it will be done. Technologically and procreation will cease if this goes to its fruition. This is why male sperm counts are plummeting all over the world and fertility is falling. It's because they want to bring an end to human fertility. And this will connect us into another dot, which is this out of nowhere when it comes out of nowhere and is suddenly everywhere.

That's the red flag every time of transgender hysteria and what they're doing is manipulating, particularly the perception of the young who are going to be the adults when this becomes full blown to have no sense of gender. So they want a generous biologically synthetic body. Synthetic biology body, which one procreate? And what they're doing with this hysteria of transgender is they are confusing gender and confusing gender on the road to fusing gender where there will be no gender, all these things connect and so this pandemic has ticked every box in terms of all these different expressions of the agenda being advanced by what's going on.

