Is bringing door buyer. I'm Bridal. He's an associate professor of viral immunology at the University of well, Doctor, you've been very, very open on this whole issue, and you're not an antivax or by any stretch. But what do you think about this inflammation in the heart? And is it an actual threat?

Yeah. Thanks for having me on, Alex. As you said, I'm very much pro vaccine, but always making sure that the science is done properly and that we follow the science carefully before going into public rollout of vaccines. I hope you let me run with this a little bit, Alex. I'll provide. I'll forewarn you and your listeners that the story about to tell is a bit of a scary one. This is cutting edge science. There's a couple of key pieces of scientific information that have become privy to just within the past few days that has made the final link.

So we understand now myself and some key international collaborators, we understand exactly why these problems are happening and many others associated these vaccines. And the story is a bit of a scary one. So just to embrace you for this, but I'm going to walk you through this. The science that I'm going to be talking about. I don't have the time here to describe exactly the scientific data. But let me assure you that everything that I'm stating here that I'm a state right now is completely backed up by peer reviewed scientific publications and well known and well respected scientific journals.

I have all of this information in hand. I'm in the process of madly trying to put it all into a document that I can hopefully circulate widely. So your listeners are going to be the first to hear the public release of this conclusion, and I can buy it all in science. So this is what it is. The stars Coronavirus Two has a spike protein on its surface. That spike protein is what it allows it to inform affect our bodies. That is why we have been using the spike protein in our vaccines.

The vaccines we're using get our cells in our body to manufacture that protein. If we can Mount an immune response against that protein. In theory, we can prevent this virus from infecting the body. That's the theory behind the vaccine. However, when studying the disease severe COVID-19, everything that you just described, heart problems, lots of problems with cardiovascular system bleeding and clotting is associated with severe COVID-19. And doing that research, what has been discovered by scientific community is the spike protein on its own, is almost entirely responsible for the damage to the cardiovascular system if it gets into circulation.

Indeed, if you inject the purified spike protein into the blood of research animals, they get all kinds of damage to cardiovascular system, and it can cross the blood brain barrier and cause damage to the brain. Now, at first glance, that doesn't seem too concerning because we're injecting these vaccines into the shoulder muscle. The assumption all up until now has been that these vaccines behave like all of our traditional vaccines, that they don't go anywhere other than the injection site. So they stay in our shoulder. Some of the protein will go to the local draining lymph node in order to activate the immune system.

However, this is where the cutting edge science has come in, and this is where it gets scary. Through a request for information from the Japanese Regulatory agency myself and several international collaborators have been able to get access to what's called a biodistribution study. It's the first time ever that scientists have been privy to seeing where these messenger RNA vaccines go after vaccination. In other words, is it a safe assumption that it stays in the shoulder muscle? The short answer is absolutely not. It's very disconcerning. The spike protein gets into the blood, circulates through the blood and individuals over several days post vaccination, it accumulates.

Once it gets the blood, it accumulates in a number of tissues, such as the spleen, the bone marrow deliver the adrenal glands. One that's a particular concern for me is it accumulates quite high concentrations in the ovaries and then also a publication that was just accepted for a scientific paper just accepted for publication. That box this up looked at 13 young health care workers that had received the Madena vaccine, which is the other message RNA base vaccine we have in Canada and they confirmed this. They found the spike protein in circulation.

So in the blood of eleven of those 13 health care workers that had received the vaccine. What this means is we have known for a long time that the spike protein is a pathogenic protein. It is a toxin. It can cause damage in our body if it gets into circulation. Now, we have clear cut evidence that the vaccines that make our bodies, the muscles or the cells in our deltoid muscle rate manufacture this protein, the vaccine itself, plus, the protein gets into blood circulation when in circulation, despite protein combined to the receptors that are on our platelets and the cells that line our blood vessels.

When that happens, it can do one of two things that can either cause platelets to clump and that can lead to clotting. That's exactly why we've been seeing clotting disorders associated with these vaccines. It can also lead to bleeding and of course, the hearts involved. It's a key part of the cardio master system. That's why we're seeing heart problems. The protein can also cross the blood brain barrier and cause neurological damage. That's why also, in the fatal case of blood clots many times is seen in the brain.

And also of concern. Is there's also evidence of a study this has not yet been accepted for publication yet. This one, they were trying to show that the antibodies from the vaccine get transferred through breast milk. And the idea was this may be a good thing because I would prefer some passive protection to babies. However, what they found inadvertently was that the vaccines, the messenger vaccines actually get transferred through the breast milk. So delivering the vaccine vector itself into infants that are breastfeeding. Also with this.

Now we know spike protein gets into circulation. Any proteins in the blood will get concentrated in breast milk. Looking into the adverse event database in the United States, we have found evidence of suckling infants experiencing bleeding disorders in the gastrointestinal tract.

Okay, let me pause you there. We got about 45 seconds left. I mean, the bottom line.

Sure, this message. So this has implications for blood donation. Right now, Canadian blood services are saying people that who have been vaccinated can donate. We don't want transfer of these pathogenic spike proteins to fragile patients were being transfused with up blood. This has implications for entrance that are suckling. And this has serious implications for people for whom SARS coronavirus two is not a high risk pathogen, and that includes all of our children. In short, the conclusion is we made a big mistake. We didn't realize it until now.

We thought the spike protein was a great target antigen. We never knew the spike protein itself was a toxin and was a pathogenic protein. So by vaccinating people, we are inadvertently inoculating them with a toxin and some people, this gets into circulation. And when that happens, and some people, it can cause damage, especially to the cardiovascular system. And I have many other I don't have time but many other legitimate questions about the long term safety there for this vaccine, for example, without accumulating in the ovaries.

One of my questions is, will we be rendering young people infertile some of them infertile so I'll stop there. I know it's heavy heading.

But I'm up against the I need, like, an hour when I talk to you because you have so much information. And, of course, you're one opinion of mini, but it's interesting because you have a different look at it, and certainly the time will tell on this. But we'll have you on again, because I always get an interesting and different perspective from you, doctor. Thank you.

It was my pleasure. Take care.

That is Doctor Bridal, who a lot of you like and like to hear and again, that's his findings. Again, we get lots of different medical opinions that will scare a lot of people. But there are a lot of people already who don't trust the vaccines given us.

