 After one dose of the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines,
there's about 90% protection after about two weeks.
With a second dose
is recommended for longer lasting immunity,
and that's same with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine.
It takes about two weeks
to first starting seeing that immune response
and then the protection builds from there.
All three vaccines are highly effective
and I would have no qualms about taking any one of them.
I don't have a preference for any of the vaccines.
There's no problem getting a delayed second dose.
We do try to get people vaccinated on time,
so either three or four weeks
after the first dose of the vaccine.
But let's say the supply wasn't there
or for some other reason,
you got sick and you weren't available to be immunized,
just get vaccinated as soon as you can after that interval.
You don't have to restart the vaccine series.
And even if you get vaccinated six or seven weeks later,
the CDC says that dose is a valid dose
and you don't have to restart the series.
(bright music)
People who have COVID,
we recommend waiting until you're no longer infectious,
so you're no longer isolated or in quarantine,
and then you may get vaccinated
as soon as you feel well enough to get vaccinated.
But there's no rush to get vaccinated
because reinfection within 90 days of infection
is very rare.
So the CDC says you can wait up to 90 days later.
But there's no minimum interval that you need to wait.
(bright music)
We just don't know how long immunity's going to last.
We wonder if we're gonna need boosters
and how frequent the boosters are going to be.
So far what we've seen
is that the immune response following immunization
is equivalent or better
to the immune response that's seen following infection.
So we expect at least three months of protection
and likely longer,
but we just don't know.
We're gonna have to do those studies and follow up.
(bright music)
People with underlying medical conditions,
such as heart, kidney disease, diabetes, lung disease,
these people are at increased risk
for having severe infection.
So they certainly should be immunized.
The CDC also recommends that they should be immunized
unless they do have a contraindication to vaccination.
And many of these groups were included in the studies.
People who are immunocompromised,
the main concern we have
is that they might be at increased risk
for severe infection.
People with mild immunocompromise
were included in the vaccine studies
and they did seem to be protected
and have a good immune response
with no increased risk of adverse effects.
People with more severe immunocompromise
were not included in the studies
but the CDC does recommend for them to be immunized
because they may have protection from the vaccine
and there's no theoretical increased risk
of side effects following vaccination.
(bright music)
Pregnant or lactating women
were not supposed to be included in the studies
but some women became pregnant in the studies
or they were missed
and so there is very little safety data
but there's no theoretical reason that we can think of
that the vaccines would have an adverse effect
on the mother, on the developing fetus,
or on the breastfeeding infant
and so we think that women
who are pregnant or breastfeeding,
that they may be vaccinated.
They may wanna talk to their doctor about that.
When I talk to mothers about this,
I've been recommending it
because I do feel that the benefits of immunization
outweigh the theoretical risks.
We know that pregnant women
are at higher risk for more severe infection
compared to non-pregnant women of the same age.
(bright music)
If you've had vaccine side effects,
such as a severely sore arm
or a bad headache or fever,
after you've been vaccinated,
you can certainly take antipyretics
and anti-inflammatories,
such as Tylenol, ibuprofen, or aspirin,
and that should relieve your symptoms.
But it's not recommended to take those prophylactically.
There's theoretical reasons
to think that if you take those prophylactically
before you've been immunized
that that might decrease the immune response
and we wouldn't want that.
I think if you're feeling sick
on the day that you're gonna get vaccinated
then don't get vaccinated
because if you get more sick,
it'll be hard to know
whether that was a side effect of the vaccine
or whether that's the natural course of your infection.
(bright music)
I think, you know, the CDC and others
still recommend universal masking when in public
when you're around people outside your household.
That's the best way to prevent another surge of infection.
We still have a significant number of people in the US
who are still susceptible to disease
who have not been vaccinated,
they haven't had infection yet,
and so we still feel that we are at risk
for additional surges.
So right now, we're still recommending continue masking,
continue social distancing.
