Hi. My name is Susan Laird. I'm a registered nurse  and part of the Health Communications Team at CDC,  
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. This  video is part of a series on vaccine safety  
monitoring and what you need to know.  Today we're going to talk about v-safe  
a new smartphone based tool that helps  CDC monitor the safety of COVID vaccines.  
You can find links to additional vaccine safety  resources in the description for this video.  
As a certified nursing assistant or  other caregiver in your community,  
your work is important and so is your health and  safety. That's what v-safe is all about. V-safe  
lets you give confidential health-related  feedback to CDC after you get the COVID-19  
vaccine. Your participation helps CDC monitor  the safety of vaccines for you and for everyone.  
V-safe will also remind you when it's time  to get your second vaccine dose. V-safe is  
not an app you have to download. It's a secure  online tool you access with your smartphone.  
Once you sign up, v-safe sends you text messages  that link to short online surveys. These surveys,  
or health check-ins, allow you to tell CDC  how you're feeling after the COVID-19 vaccine.  
Depending on your answers someone from CDC may  call to check on you. We encourage you to enroll  
in v-safe and share your vaccination experience.  You can use any smartphone with texting and  
internet capabilities. Visit cdc.gov/v-safe to  get started. Also, if your residents or their  
families are able to enroll in and interact with  v-safe we encourage them to participate as well.  
You may assist residents in enrolling but you  should not complete any health check-ins for them.  
Your participation in v-safe helps CDC  monitor the safety of COVID-19 vaccines  
in real time. It's an important step you can  take to help keep vaccines safe. So remember:  
get vaccinated, get your smartphone,  and get started with v-safe.  
We know you are focused on taking care of your  residents and staying healthy. We appreciate your  
time today. Thank you for all you're doing to care  for your residents and protect them from COVID-19.
